README.md, before:

# NotePlan-Obsidian-Switcher
This AppleScript allows you to seamlessly switch between Obsidian and NotePlan by opening the corresponding note in the other application. 

## Features

- Detects whether Obsidian or NotePlan is the active application. (If neither app is active, the script does nothing.)´
- Retrieves the title of the current note in Obsidian and opens it in NotePlan. (Credit to [Alex](https://alexwlchan.net/2023/obsidian-open-note/) for this workaround) 
- Retrieves the URL of the current note in NotePlan and opens it in Obsidian.
- If Obsidian is in full-screen mode, the script will exit full-screen before retrieving the title. (This is necessary because I wasn't able to get the Obsidian window title in full-screen mode.)

## Requirements

- Obsidian
- NotePlan
- BetterTouchTool (or some other way of triggering the script)

Your Obsidian Vault has to be set to Your Noteplan directory, i.e. the one containing the `Calendar` and `Notes` directories. Without this setup, this script will not work. For more information about running NotePlan and Obsidian in parallel, see: https://help.noteplan.co/article/61-use-noteplan-with-obsidian)

## Testing the Script

1. **Access the script [here](https://github.com/tophee/Note-Editor-Switcher/blob/main/Toggle-Note-Editor.scpt)**

2. **Run the Script:**
   - Open the script with Script Editor or or your preferred AppleScript execution tool.
   - Add `delay 5` as the first line of the script (this gives you time to switch to NotePlan or Obsidian)
   - Set `vault` to the name of your bbsidian Vault (replace "co.noteplan.NotePlan-setapp")
   - Run the script 

## Triggering the Script

There are many ways to trigger the script. Here is one example using BetterTouchTool:

1. **Install BetterTouchTool:**
   - Download and install BetterTouchTool from [folivora.ai](https://folivora.ai/).

2. **Create a Keyboard Shortcut:**
   - Open BetterTouchTool and navigate to the `Keyboard` section.
   - Add a new shortcut by clicking the `+` button.
   - Set the keyboard shortcut to `Ctrl + <`.

3. **Set the Action:**
   - In the action configuration, choose `Run Apple Script (blocking)` (or `Run Apple Script (in background)` if you prefer).
   - Paste the content of Toggle-Note-Editor.scpt into the script editor.

4. **Save the Configuration**

## Customization

- **Vault Name:**
  - The script uses a hardcoded vault name `"co.noteplan.NotePlan-setapp"`. You can customize this by changing the `vault` variable in the script to match your vault name.

## Troubleshooting

- Ensure that the path to your Obsidian Vault and your Noteplan folder are identical and that the vault name is set correctly in the script. 
- When you run the script for the first time, BTT will ask for permission to control Obsidian and Noteplan. Make sure to grant those persmissions. 
- Adjust delay values in the script if it is not performing as expected under different system loads.

## Contributing

If you have suggestions for improving this script or encounter any issues, please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Update regarding possible effects of the Obsidian Windows Title Changer Plugin

README.md, after:

# NotePlan-Obsidian-Switcher
This AppleScript allows you to seamlessly switch between Obsidian and NotePlan by opening the corresponding note in the other application. 

## Features

- Detects whether Obsidian or NotePlan is the active application. (If neither app is active, the script does nothing.)´
- Retrieves the title of the current note in Obsidian and opens it in NotePlan. (Credit to [Alex](https://alexwlchan.net/2023/obsidian-open-note/) for this workaround) 
- Retrieves the URL of the current note in NotePlan and opens it in Obsidian.
- If Obsidian is in full-screen mode, the script will exit full-screen before retrieving the title. (This is necessary because I wasn't able to get the Obsidian window title in full-screen mode.)

## Requirements

- Obsidian
- NotePlan
- BetterTouchTool (or some other way of triggering the script)
- maybe, but apparently not: [Obsidian Windows Title Changer plugin](https://github.com/jplattel/open-note-to-window-title) (see [Update](README.md#update) under Troubleshooting below)

Your Obsidian Vault has to be set to Your Noteplan directory, i.e. the one containing the `Calendar` and `Notes` directories. Without this setup, this script will not work. For more information about running NotePlan and Obsidian in parallel, see: https://help.noteplan.co/article/61-use-noteplan-with-obsidian)

## Testing the Script

1. **Access the script [here](https://github.com/tophee/Note-Editor-Switcher/blob/main/Toggle-Note-Editor.scpt)**

2. **Run the Script:**
   - Open the script with Script Editor or or your preferred AppleScript execution tool.
   - Add `delay 5` as the first line of the script (this gives you time to switch to NotePlan or Obsidian)
   - Set `vault` to the name of your bbsidian Vault (replace "co.noteplan.NotePlan-setapp")
   - Run the script 

## Triggering the Script

There are many ways to trigger the script. Here is one example using BetterTouchTool:

1. **Install BetterTouchTool:**
   - Download and install BetterTouchTool from [folivora.ai](https://folivora.ai/).

2. **Create a Keyboard Shortcut:**
   - Open BetterTouchTool and navigate to the `Keyboard` section.
   - Add a new shortcut by clicking the `+` button.
   - Set the keyboard shortcut to `Ctrl + <`.

3. **Set the Action:**
   - In the action configuration, choose `Run Apple Script (blocking)` (or `Run Apple Script (in background)` if you prefer).
   - Paste the content of Toggle-Note-Editor.scpt into the script editor.

4. **Save the Configuration**

## Customization

- **Vault Name:**
  - The script uses a hardcoded vault name `"co.noteplan.NotePlan-setapp"`. You can customize this by changing the `vault` variable in the script to match your vault name.

## Troubleshooting

- Ensure that the path to your Obsidian Vault and your Noteplan folder are identical and that the vault name is set correctly in the script. 
- When you run the script for the first time, BTT will ask for permission to control Obsidian and Noteplan. Make sure to grant those persmissions. 
- Adjust delay values in the script if it is not performing as expected under different system loads.

### Update
I just realized that I had the [Obsidian Windows Title Changer plugin](https://github.com/jplattel/open-note-to-window-title) enabled while I developed this script. The default title template was set to `{{basename}}~~{{vault}} - Obsidian v{{version}}`. I am not sure to what extent this conditioned the script, i.e. I don't know what the Obsidian Window Title looks like without the plugin (e.g. the filtering of the vault name may not be necessary without the plugin. Since that plugin was created to get the note title into the windows title in the first place, it would seem likely that the script wont work at all without the plugin. This doesn't seem to be the case, however, so maybe the note title has been added to the windows title in Obsidian core? - I wont explore this any further as long as the script works for me.

Regardless of the above, note that the Plugin also can read the title tag in the YAML header and use that in the window title. This might add some robustness to the script, given that NotePlan uses this title for naming notes.

## Contributing

If you have suggestions for improving this script or encounter any issues, please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
